# Chapter 02 - Igniting The App

## NPM

- NPM is a widely used package management tool and it is the default package manager for Node projects.
- `NPM is installed automatically when NodeJS` is installed on a machine.
- It comes with a command-line interface (CLI) used to interact with the online database of NPM.
- This database is called the NPM Registry, and it hosts public and private `packages`.
- To add or update packages, we use the NPM CLI to interact with this database.
- `npm` alternative is `yarn`

### How to initialize `npm`

> npm init

- `npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, `npm` takes care of it and creates the `package.json` json file automatically , but without configurations.

## Bundlers - `Parcel/Webpack/Vite`

- `Parcel/Webpack/Vite` is type of a web application bundlers used for development and production purposes
- These bundlers power our application with different types of functionalities and features.
- They offers blazing fast performance utilizing multicore processing, and requires zero configuration.
- Parcel can take any type of file as an entry point, but using either HTML or JavaScript file is a good practise.

### Parcel Features:

- HMR (Hot Module Replacement) - parcel keeps track of file changes via file watcher algorithm and renders the changes in the files immediately.
- File watcher algorithm - build using C++
- Minification - Optimises the code
- Cleaning our code
- Separate DEV and production Builds
- Super fast building algorithm
- Image optimization
- Caching while development
- Compresses
- Compatible with older version of browser
- HTTPS in dev
- Port Number
- Consistent hashing algorithm
- Zero Configuration
- Automatic code splitting

### Installation commands:

- Install parcel as a devDependency.
- `-D` is used for development and installed as a development dependency.

  > npm install -D parcel

- Parcel Commands :
  - run development build:
    > npx parcel <entry_point> // index.html
  - run production build :
    > npx parcel build <entry_point> // index.html

### .parcel-cache

- `.parcel-cache` is used by the parcel(bundler) to reduce the app building time.
- It stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch.
- It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.

## npx

- `npx` - node package xecuter.
- `npx` is a tool that is used to execute the packages in Node.js environment.
- By default this tool is included in npm above 5.2.0 versions.
- It is an npm package runner that can execute any package that we want from the npm registry without even installing that package.

## dependencies vs devDependencies

- `Dependencies` should contain library and framework in which your app is built on, needs to function effectively such as Vue, React, Angular, Express, JQuery and etc.
- `DevDependencies` should contain modules/packages a developer needs during development such as, `parcel, webpack, vite, mocha`.
- `DevDependencies` are `necessary only while we are developing our project`, not necessary for production.

To save a dependency as a devDependency on installation we need to do,

> npm install --save-dev

## Tree Shaking

- In computing, Tree shaking is a dead code elimination technique that is applied while optimizing code.
- `Tree shaking` is process of removing the unwanted code that we do not use while developing the application.

## Hot Module Replacement

- `Hot Module Replacement (HMR)` exchanges, adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload.
- This can significantly speed up development in a few ways: Retain application state which is lost during a full reload.

## `.gitignore` file

- The `.gitignore file` is a text file that tells `Git` which files or folders to `ignore` in a project during `commit to the repository`.
- The types of files we should consider adding to a `.gitignore` file are any files that do not need to get committed.
- for example, For security, the security key files and API keys should get added to the gitignore.
- `package-lock.json` should not be add into your `.gitignore` file. !Important

The entries in this file can also follow a matching pattern.

```
* is used as a wildcard match for selectoring all items at once.
/ is used to ignore pathnames relative to the .gitignore file
# is used to add comments to a .gitignore file
```

This is an example of what the .gitignore file could look like:

```
# Ignore Mac system files
.DS_store

# Ignore node_modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore all text files
*.txt

# Ignore files related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```

## `package.json` Vs `package-lock.json`?

- `package.json`:

  - This file is mandatory for every project
  - It contains basic information about the project
  - Application name/version/scripts

- `package-lock.json`:

  - This file is automatically generated for those operations where npm modifies either the node_module tree or package-json.
  - It is generated after an npm install
  - It allows future devs & automated systems to download the same dependencies as the project.
  - it also allows to go back to the past version of the dependencies without actual
    ‘committing the node_modules folder.
  - It records the same version of the installed packages which allows to reinstall them.
    Future installs will be capable of building identical description tree.

- **~** or **^** in `package.json` file :
  These are used with the versions of the package installed.

  For example in `package.json` file:

  ```
  "dependencies": {
      "react": "^18.2.0",
      "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
    }
  ```

  - **~** : `Approximately equivalent to version`, will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementing the minor version.
  - **^** : `Compatible with version`, will update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version.
  - If none of them is present, that means only the version specified in `package.json` file is used in the development.

## Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?

- `package-lock.json` file contains the information about the dependencies and their versions used in the project.
- Deleting it would cause dependencies issues in the production environment.
- So don't modify it, It's being handled automatically by NPM.

## 13: `node_modules`

- `node_modules` folder is like a cache for the external modules that your project depends upon.
- When we `npm` install them, they are be downloaded from the web and copied into the node_modules folder and` Nodejs` is trained to look for them there when you import them (without a specific path).
- `Don't push node_modules`in github because it contains lots of files(more than 100 MB), it will cost you memory space.

## `dist` folder

- The `/dist` folder contains the minimized version of the source code.
- The code present in the `/dist` folder is actually the code which is used on production web applications.
- Along with the minified code, the `/dist` folder also comprises of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with other systems.

## `browserslist`

- `Browserslist` is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported in your frontend app by specifying "queries" in a config file.
- It's used by frameworks/libraries such as React, Angular and Vue, but it's not limited to them.
